have your views on Instagram been down
recently well in this video I'm going to
share with you seven different reasons
why your Instagram reels might be in the
tank but for every one of these reasons
that does have something that you can
control I'm going to give you a solution
to bring your reels views back up first
of all let me start by saying you're not
alone According to some recent polls 91
of people report that their reels views
have been down in Q4 of 2022. this is a
very widespread problem and something
that we've been researching for quite
some time to figure out exactly what is
going on also and before we even get
into this list let me just say that it's
very normal for your individual accounts
views to go down and it's very normal
for overall reels views or just any
social networks views to go down over
time think about it like the traditional
bell curve the early adopters and the
people who are innovating the product
are usually the ones who are going to
reap the most benefits and the greatest
rewards so the people who are posting
reels in 2021 and even early 2022 saw
the biggest benefits the highest rate of
viral and the most new followers from
reels but as more people start to use
this feature as it becomes more
widespread and more heavily consumed
ultimately that means that there's more
competition more fish in the sea and the
overall views go down the same is true
on Tick Tock the same is true on YouTube
the same is true on Twitter the same is
true on pretty much every social media
app so before you jump ship from
Instagram and run over to the next
platform remember that the grass ain't
always greener on the other side it's
Greener where you water it at so I want
to remind you to stay consistent and to
keep Watering your own graph with that
being said the first reason why your
reels views are down is because there's
more competition there's more people
posting reels right now than there has
been ever before so unless your follower
growth has grown at the same rate as the
usage of Instagram reels then you're
just not going to be getting the same
amount of views as you used to there
used to be a lot less people posting
reels so when you did post a reel there
was a wide audience who it could be
pushed out to now getting views on your
reels has become a much more per live
space so what can you do to fix this
problem you have really two options
increase your quantity or increase your
quality and I think you don't have to
necessarily pick one I think you can do
both at the same time for most of us our
level of quality is already good enough
for Instagram now of course good mics
good lighting good editing can always
improve your reels quality but most of
us are shooting with HD smartphones and
our mic quality and lighting quality is
just fine so what I recommend doing is
increasing your quantity yes increasing
your quantity the more you post the more
you grow it's actually been
statistically proven that as your post
rate increases so does your follower
growth and it basically just goes back
to this idea that if you're out of sight
you're out of mind and the social media
algorithms are never going to show all
of your posts to all of your followers
so every post is an opportunity to reach
more of your existing followers and not
just that it's also an opportunity to
reach a more broad audience who isn't
following you yet the second reason why
your reels views might be down down is
just simply the time of year Q4 2022 and
Q4 of every year includes the holidays
and the holidays are typically a time of
lower engagement on Instagram some
people do experience higher engagement
over the holidays but overall businesses
and creators typically experience lower
engagement over November and December so
that's typical it's also typical that
engagement drops a little bit at the
beginning of summer in whatever
hemisphere you're in there are these
normal seasonal patterns of Engagement
and reach on social media so just know
that it might not be you it might just
be the season that we're in and of
course that's not one that you can
necessarily change or control we are
ultimately at the will of users
consumption habits when it comes to how
seasons affect engagement and Views the
third reason why your views might be
down is that Instagram has been making
some changes to the way recommendations
work within the algorithm if you'll
remember during the summer of 2022 a lot
of people got really upset with
Instagram to the point where some of the
Kardashians posted that we need to make
Instagram great again and bring back the
old Instagram there's even a petition
put out that got over a hundred thousand
signatures to make Instagram great again
ultimately Instagram's response was to
say we hear you so we are going to
lessen the amount of recommendations in
the feed they basically changed how many
posts we're seeing from people that we
don't follow or that we don't regularly
see and engage and while this might have
initially sounded like great news I was
hesitant to really celebrate this change
because I had a feeling of what it would
lead to and ultimately what it's led to
is less recommendations for all of us
sure we're not seeing as many random
posts from people who we don't really
care about but also people who might not
really care about us aren't seeing our
posts our posts aren't being recommended
to the same amount of people or at the
same rate and that means less views less
exposure and less reach to non-followers
this is another reason that's beyond
your control but I do have some good
news and that's the Instagram said that
they are bringing back recommendations
and increasing the number of in-feed
recommendations in 2023. my fourth
reason why your views might be down is
that mathematically if you are not
gaining followers your viewership will
always be declining and here's why let's
use Simple numbers let's say you grew
100 followers in one day well that day
that you grew those 100 followers all
100 of those people were engaged they
were active on the platform and they
made the decision to follow you because
they like your content now by the next
day those same 100 people aren't likely
going to be online maybe 95 to 99 of
those 100 people are going to be online
but the chances that all of them are
going to be online the next time you
post are very slim now let's extrapolate
this over multiple months if not
multiple years if you don't actively
have new followers coming in then your
viewership is always going to be going
down people are always going to be
deleting their Instagram logging out not
being active forgetting their password
getting hacked losing interest in your
content not seeing what you post not
engaging with your content for extended
periods of time which means that the
algorithm is less likely to show them
your future content and so overall
unless you're actively bringing new
followers in your views are not only
going to Plateau they're likely going to
decrease over time what that means is if
you want your views to Plateau you need
to be consistently bringing in new
followers to replace the ones who are no
longer engaging and if you actually want
your views to be increasing well then
you have to be actively bringing in
large amounts of new followers I'm
talking dozens if not hundreds if not
thousands of followers every single week
just to make sure that your views remain
consistent of course it's always best
it's always recommended to try to keep
your existing followers engaged but the
reality of keeping 100 of them or even
ninety percent or even 50 percent of
your active followers engaging with your
content on a regular basis is really
tough to do especially as you're
following grows especially as your
business expands and as you start to
reach a more broad audience it's really
hard to keep all of those people engaged
I mean even with your best efforts even
with the best content on the planet some
people are going to get get hacked some
people are going to lose access to their
account and some people are just not
going to be on Instagram anymore so you
have to constantly be adding in new
followers in order to Plateau or even
increase your views the fifth reason why
your views might be down is boredom
ultimately even great content will
become boring if it's not varied you
need to change things up change up the
background change up what you're wearing
change up the way you deliver your reels
change up your mic or your lighting or
your camera or your style change up your
fonts your graphics your colors change
up if you're doing Trends or original
audios or direct to cameras or point of
views constantly be varying your content
do carousels and reels and pictures and
videos and stories and lives the more
variety that you can give your followers
the better ultimately variety is the
spice of life and if you have no Spice
in your content you're going to bore
people the sixth reason why your reviews
might be down on your Instagram reels is
you're just simply relying too heavily
on Trends not only are most trends that
you're seeing and that you're doing
Recreations of what hundreds if not
thousands of other people have already
seen and done but also a lot of trends
that you're doing might already be over
saturated or overdone by the time
they're done on Instagram at all
oftentimes Trends originate on Tick Tock
and then they migrate over to Instagram
and so by the time they start to pop off
and blow up on Instagram it's already on
the tail end of the popularity of that
Trend and so what a lot of people are
doing is only remaking Trends they're
lip syncing which has no authenticity it
has no voice it has no originality it's
not unique it's ultimately just copying
really what hundreds if not thousands of
other people have already done according
to our recent polls four out of five
people prefer original audio content
over trending remake lip synced content
so my tip for you is to start
incorporating more of this original
unique authentic content into your own
Instagram strategy are you likely going
to go viral with your own spoken audio
probably not trending audios are
ultimately how you win the lottery on
Instagram but just like winning the
Lottery your odds of winning are very
very slim and you have to buy lots and
lots of tickets so you have to post
hundreds of trending remakes in order to
have one that pops off and goes viral
that's just the reality of reels and
recreating Trends if you want a more
sustained way to build consistent views
and viewers who will become followers
and followers who will become customers
stop just remaking Trends and start
incorporating original audios and more
unique content into your Instagram reels
my seventh possible reason why your
views may be down is that you might have
unknowingly or maybe knowingly violated
Instagram's Community guidelines like it
or not regardless of your political
affiliation or your own personal beliefs
when you sign up for Instagram you agree
to abide by their Community guidelines
and if you violate those Community
guidelines sometimes unknowingly
sometimes accidentally sometimes
Instagram thinks you've violated their
guidelines when in reality you actually
haven't if you are accused or if you are
accused of doing any of of those things
Instagram will lessen your views it's
not because Instagram is necessarily
trying to punish you but really just
that they are trying to keep their
platform a safe place and if you violate
their guidelines they're going to show
your content to less people to hopefully
make it a safer place at least that's
what they say you can actually check on
your account status by going to your
settings going to your account and then
tapping on account status and it will
tell you whether or not you are in good
standing most of us most of the time are
in good standing but if you did violate
one of their guidelines you can either
appeal that delete the post or do both
violating the guidelines too often of
course can result in your account being
suspended or even deleted so it's best
to just stay on Instagram's good side
don't violate any guidelines and make
sure that your views will stay up
because of It ultimately I want to leave
you with this growth on any social
network is tough it takes time and
consistency and not consistency for 30
days or 90 days but consistency for
months if not year so I want to
encourage you just keep hammering just
keep working just keep posting content
of course prioritize your mental health
and take breaks when you need it but
stay consistent and keep increasing that
frequency of posting on Instagram and
eventually your account will start to
grow and your views will increase thank
you so much for watching today if you
learned something new or you found this
video valuable I would really mean a lot
to me if you pressed that thumbs up
button and press the Subscribe Button as
well because every single week I'm going
to be putting out content on this
channel about growing on social media
increasing your following on Instagram
and making money on social media so make
sure to subscribe for more content and
thank you so much for watching today